# SELECT/CASE

| | |
|---|---|
| **Category** | Structured Programming |
| **Max Nesting** | 20 deep |

## Description

SELECT
This is a non-loop structure. Each item is only tested once. The general layout of the structure is:
SELECT expression
CASE int_value
CASE int_value
...
CASE int_value
OTHERWISE
ENDC

SELECT expression
This is the beginning of the Case structure. The expression must resolve to an I type value.
The value will be used in comparisons by the individual CASE commands.
This command is generally used in menu type situations.

CASE int_value
This part represents the choice in the SELECT structure. The int_value must be in the form of
a I type constant. For example:
CASE 1
If the int_value matches the value generated by the appropriate SELECT expression, the lines
after the CASE command and continuing until the next CASE, OTHERWISE or ENDC

## Syntax

```tas
SELECT expression
CASE int_value
CASE int_value
...
CASE int_value
OTHERWISE
ENDCASE
```

## Keywords

### `CASE int_value`

This part represents the choice in the SELECT structure. The int_value must be in the form of an I type constant. For example: CASE 1 If the int_value matches the value generated by the appropriate SELECT expression, the lines after the CASE command and continuing until the next CASE, OTHERWISE or ENDC

### `OTHERWISE`

If none of the previous CASE values match that in the SELECT command, the program will always execute the lines between this OTHERWISE and the ENDC. This is much like the ELSE option within an IF/ENDIF structure.

### `ENDCASE`

This is the end of the SELECT/CASE/ENDC structure. Each SELECT must have an ENDC to finish the structure. If the ENDC is not included an error message will be displayed during compilation.

## Example

```tas
SELECT counter && counter might be a value received from a menu.
CASE 1
...
...
&& group 1
...
CASE 2
...
...
&& group 2
...
CASE 3
...
...
&& group 3
...
OTHERWISE
...
...
&& group 4
...
ENDC
```
